Added guide for context-menu (#228)
hoppscotch/docs: documentation/features/context-menu.mdx

---
sidebarTitle: Context Menu
title: Context Menu
description: Learn how to use the context menu.
---

Context-aware menus enable quick actions like creating variables or adding query
parameters by selecting text or elements. The context menu offers three options:
**Set as Variable**, **Add to Parameters**, and **Open Request in New Tab**.

<Info>
  The "Add to Parameters" option is available only when using query parameters.
</Info>

> ## Set as Variable

Reviewer: Just paraphrasing this section to add more clarity while reading:

> You can use the **Set as Variable** option from the context menu to assign a selected value to an environment variable.
> 
> Hoppscotch supports various variable scopes, including global, environment, and request-specific variables. For more details on these scopes, [click here](/documentation/features/variables).

can you make a new commit for this?

You can access the **Set as Variable** option from the context menu. Once
selected, you can assign the selected value to an environment variable.

Hoppscotch offers different variable scopes, including global, environment, and
request variables. You can read more about variable scopes
[here](/documentation/features/variables).

> ### How to Use "Set as Variable"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### How to use "Set as Variable"
```

After setting an [environment variable](/documentation/features/environments),

> you can use it with the format `<<variable name>>`. This allows you to store

Reviewer: ```suggestion
you can reference it using the format `<<variable name>>`. 
```

> values like `<<baseURL>>` in a single variable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, `<<baseURL>>` can be used to dynamically insert the base URL across your requests.
```

## Add to Parameters

> The **Add to Parameters** option lets you easily add parameters and their

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Add to Parameters** option allows you to quickly add parameters along with their
```

values.

When you select **Add to Parameters**, it automatically captures the parameter

> and its value. For example, the `baseURL` is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and its value. For example, if the `baseURL` is
```

> `https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com/?user=1` now the user with ID "1" will be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com/?user=1`, now the **user** with ID **1** will be
```

included in the parameter placeholder.

## Open Request in New Tab

> The **Open Request in New Tab** option allows you to open the current request in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Open Request in New Tab** option allows you to open any **selected URL or text** as
```

> a new tab, enabling you to handle multiple requests simultaneously.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a new request in a separate tab.
```

> This feature helps you shift the current request to a new tab while working on a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By opening the selected URL in a new tab, you can continue working on your original request in its own tab without any interruptions.
```

> new request in the original tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

---
sidebarTitle: Context Menu
title: Context Menu
description:
  Use context-aware menus to assist with your actions and improve your workflow.
---

Context-aware menus enable quick actions like creating variables or adding query
parameters by selecting text or elements. The context menu offers three options:
**Set as Variable**, **Add to Parameters**, and **Open Request in New Tab**.

<Info>
  The "Add to Parameters" option is available only when using query parameters.
</Info>

> ## Set as Variable

Reviewer: Hey, thanks for making the changes. Could you please remove the quotes (>) from this section? They were only for your reference.

> You can use the **Set as Variable** option from the context menu to assign a
> selected value to an environment variable.

> Hoppscotch supports various variable scopes, including global, environment,
> and request-specific variables. For more details on these scopes
> [click here](/documentation/features/variables).

### How to use "Set as Variable"

After setting an [environment variable](/documentation/features/environments),
you can reference it using the format `<<variable name>>`. This allows you to
store For example, `<<baseURL>>` can be used to dynamically insert the base URL
across your requests.

## Add to Parameters

The **Add to Parameters** option allows you to quickly add parameters along with
their values.

When you select **Add to Parameters**, it automatically captures the parameter
and its value. For example, if the `baseURL` is

> `https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com/?user=1`, now the **user** with ID **1**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com/?user=1`, now the `user` with ID `1`
```

Reviewer: Can you tag me once these changes are done?

Author: Sure!

Author: @SanskritiHarmukh review changes!
